Abstractions:

Roboease:
	Provides: variables, higher-level functions, hides low-level pipetting commands, external scripts

Roboease may not be the best level of abstraction to target.  It's still so low-level that scripts cannot be created for a spontaneous experiment -- they need to be worked out and debugged.  It's also excessively low-level for use as the output from higher-level programs.

Abstract away from bench layout and tip assumptions by using liquids instead of locations:
	requires: liquid specification (physical property category, contaminants, sterility requirements), locations of liquids
	provides: more portable than well locations, automatically handles tip sterilization for both fixed-tip and disposable-tip robots, automatically chooses pipetting strategy

Database:
	requires: database of liquids, plates, wells, command data (e.g. various PCR mix specifications)
	provides: minimizes script complexity, automatic selection of plates and wells and robot locations, enables automatic generation of portable protocols

Current way to specify robot instructions: (declarative description; based on a format used for designers)
Pcr {
	Product { template: "FRP572"; forwardPrimer: "FRO115";  backwardPrimer: "FRO1260" }
	Product { template: "FRP128"; forwardPrimer: "FRO1259"; backwardPrimer: "FRO1262" }
	Product { template: "FRP572"; forwardPrimer: "FRO1261"; backwardPrimer: "FRO114" }
	...
	mixSpec: "Phusion-HotStart"
	volumes: 20 ul
}

Next step:
	continuous feedback and dynamic database update

3-way Programming split (same idea as roboease):
	command sequence specification for the user
	callable external user-created scripts
	more complex extensions can be acheived by a developer using the provided library

Issues:
	can we lower the priority of roboease compatibility?






--------------
You take the Regio from Wengen to Lauterbrunnen.
Your journey starts at Wengen on 13.02.12 at 09:03, you arrive at Lauterbrunnen is at 09:21.
Your journey continues by Regio from Lauterbrunnen to Interlaken Ost.
Your journey starts at Lauterbrunnen at 09:33, you arrive at Interlaken Ost is on track 2A  at 09:54.
Your journey continues by InterCityExpress from Interlaken Ost departing track 5  to Basel SBB.
Your journey starts at Interlaken Ost at 10:00, you arrive at Basel SBB is on track 12  at 11:59.


Details: I assume that you arrive at 11:50 in Basel SBB on Monday. Given the fact that you did all this before, I trust it is OK if I ask you to take the Tram from the main station to reach us? It would be tram line number 2 (leaves directly I front of the main station), direction of “Eglisee”, stop “Gewerbeschule” (one after “Messe/exhibition or fair” – that stop is typically announced in English). From there, it is only a  3 min walk to us. If you call me once you are in the tram, I would pick you up at the Tram stop (my number: +41-76-323 59 29). If you can, be sure to buy a “City-Ticket” in Wengen, that will save you the trouble of buying a public transportation ticket in Basel. 


Sure, my swiss mobile number is 076-475-5045 


